No. 
	 	
01 문장의 시작 
	 	
001 
	 	
Psychological and social well-being of children must both be ensured for them to have a healthy childhood. 
	 	
 
	 	
002 
	 	
Globally, and in most countries, the number of deaths from air pollution has increased. 
	 	
  
	 	
003 
	 	
Many people around the world give blood donations every year. This blood is used in blood transfusions or made into medication. 
	 	
  
	 	
004 
	 	
These days mathematics is important in many different types of jobs, including those related to engineering, business, science, medicine and more. 
	 	
 
	 	
005 
	 	
At the height of the last glacial period, the sea level was so low that dry land joined the continents that are separate today. 
	 	
 
	 	
006 
	 	
When we narrate our firsthand experiences, we tend to modify what happened in order to make the story more enjoyable for the listeners. 
	 	
 
	
No. 
	 	
02 주어 역할을 하는 명사구 
	 	
007 
	 	
To read critically means to read analytically, which means to question and think about the written material in front of you. 
	 	
 
	 	
008 
	 	
To pay a lot of money for something can also be expressed as “something costs an arm and a leg.” 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
009 
	 	
When people are depressed, recalling their problems makes things worse. 
	 	
 
	 	
010 
	 	
Taking unscheduled breaks is an easy way to fall into the procrastination trap. 
	 	
 
	
No. 
	 	
03 주어 역할을 하는 명사절 
	 	
011 
	 	
That climate change will get worse is obvious throughout the world. 
	 	
 
	 	
012 
	 	
Children would be comfortable with a good caretaker. It doesn’t matter in the long run whether that’s a parent, nanny, or day care. 
	 	
  
	 	
013 
	 	
In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true either is true or becomes true. 
	 	
  
	 	
014 
	 	
Who built the pyramids is a question that has been asked for millennia. 
	 	
 
	 	
015 
	 	
How much more you learn when you pause, quiet your mind, and listen to what others say is amazing. 
	 	
 
	 	
016 
	 	
Whatever does not destroy me makes me stronger. 
	 	
 
	 
 	
No. 
	 	
04 긴 주어 
	 	
017 
	 	
Some books useful for students preparing for the test were procured in the school library. 
	 	
 
	 	
018 
	 	
A friendship founded on business is better than a business founded on friendship. 
	 	
  
	 	
019 
	 	
People who are often in a hurry imagine they are energetic, when in most cases they are simply inefficient. 
	 	
 
	 	
020 
	 	
Consumption of fossil fuels at an alarming rate can lead to global warming which can further result in melting of polar ice caps and an increase in sea levels. 
	 	
 
	 	
021 
	 	
Devoting our time and energy to finding what’s important to us eventually will bring about much more effective allocation of our spiritual resource. 
	 	
 
	 	
022 
	 	
An important way to improve your well-being and manage relationships is learning to deal with conflict in a positive and constructive way, without excessive stress. 
	 	
 
	 	
023 
	 	
What may be normal behavior in one culture functions as inappropriate or even rude behavior in another. 
	 	
 
	 	
024 
	 	
Whoever has the device that is causing the interruption in class must silence it immediately. 
	 	
 
	 	
025 
	 	
When you meet a complete stranger at a party, to introduce yourself and try to be interested in the other person breaks the ice. 
	 	
 
	 	
026 
	 	
Choosing natural cleaning products like vinegar and baking soda over commercial cleaning agents can reduce exposure to toxic chemicals.  
	 	
 
	
No. 
	 	
05 무생물 주어의 해석 
	 	
027 
	 	
Processed foods cause younger people to have different sensations of taste from the older generation. 
	 	
 
	 	
028 
	 	
A more expensive tennis racket will not make it possible for you to be a better player. 
	 	
 
	 	
029 
	 	
Expressing your feelings when you’re sad or stressed out will make you feel better than holding them back. 
	 	
 
	 	
030 
	 	
Reading allows us to travel to times, places, and situations that we might not 
	
otherwise have a chance to experience in reality. 
	 	
 
	 	
031 
	 	
The past 50 years have seen the rapid development of the nation’s economy. 
	 	
 
	
No. 
	 	
06 의미상의 주어와 멀리 떨어진 to-v/v-ing 
	 	
032 
	 	
It is necessary for people entering the laboratory to wear protective clothing. 
	 	
 
	 	
033 
	 	
I appreciate your counseling me about my worries and giving me some good advice. 
	 	
 
	 	
034 
	 	
Recess should be a time for students to have a break between classes, to release energy on their own terms, and to socialize with their friends. 
	 	
 
	 	
035 
	 	
The opportunity for the native community to sell their artworks to tourists or perform folk dances for them may encourage local artists to preserve traditional art forms. 
	 	
 
	 	
036 
	 	
Some developed nations are infamous for their industrial facilities’ creating an unreasonable measure of waste and dumping in the seas. 
	 	
 
	 	
037 
	 	
This recording studio is soundproof so there is no chance of somebody in the next room hearing any sound from here. 
	 	
 
	
No. 
	 	
07 <it is 명사 that ~>의 it 
	 	
038 
	 	
Leadership is an active practice, which gets refined in motion. It is a skill that is sharpened with every experience, interaction and decision. 
	 	
 
	 	
039 
	 	
It is an undeniable fact that the primary source of novelty lies in the recombination of information within the individual brain. 
	 	
 
	 	
040 
	 	
During a famine, it’s the lack of proteins and the essential amino acids, not the lack of calories, that is the ultimate cause of death. 
	 	
 
	 	
041 
	 	
Non-verbal communication is not a substitute for verbal communication. It is a supplement that enhances the richness of the content of the message. 
	 	
 
	 	
042 
	 	
It is a common misconception that good writing is merely the production of a written article, free of grammar and spelling errors. 
	 	
 
	 	
043 
	 	
While your ears pick up the sound, it is your brain that does the hard work of processing and making sense of it all. 
	 	
 
	
 
No.
08 동사의 목적어 역할을 하는 to-v/v-ing구 I
044
Her family did not approve when she decided to become an artist, but she bravely took the steps to make art her career.

045
Health care workers should use plain language with words that patients can understand and avoid using medical and technical jargon.

046
Don’t choose to waste your life on guilt about the past or concern for the future.

047
Team sports such as basketball and soccer provide an opportunity for students to enjoy working and competing together as a team. 

048
Consider talking to a counselor if you are feeling depressed, anxious, or so preoccupied with a problem that you feel it is hard to enjoy life.

049
We don’t like to say “no” — and people don’t like to hear it. However, we should not postpone delivering bad news, because a quick response is almost always appreciated in rejection. 

No.
09 동사의 목적어 역할을 하는 to-v/v-ing구 II
050
Remember to keep your thoughts positive, for your thoughts will become your life.

051
I remember staying at the Palm Beach Hotel, located in South Florida, during my last vacation.

052
Don’t forget to say thank you to those who help you.

053
Don’t forget promising to get back home early in the evening.

054
We regret to inform you that the shipment will be delayed.

055
When offered a new opportunity or challenge, you are much less likely to regret accepting it and more likely to regret turning it down.

056
When you try to combat stress with food, you’ll want more and more.

057
If you want to do some serious thinking, you’d better disconnect the Internet and phone and try spending twenty-four hours in absolute solitude.

058
If you are in debt, you should stop buying unnecessary things.

 
No.
10 동사의 목적어 역할을 하는 명사절
059
More people are realizing that music videos can bring out the color of the singers and their songs.

060
The government said it’s going to help small businesses financially that didn’t know they were eligible for assistance last year.

061
When you tell people you need help, they will give you a hand.

062
People who change do not question whether change is possible.

063
For more than a century, psychoanalysts have wondered if dreams are a reflection of upcoming realities.

064
Ask yourself when you learned the most. I guarantee it was when you felt at risk. 

065
While transportation infrastructure may shape where we travel today, in the early eras of travel, it determined whether people could travel or not.

066
People forget how fast you did a job but remember how well you did it.

067
Memorizing the meaning of words is much easier if you wonder what they mean and how they are used in a sentence. 

068
We typically look for things that confirm our existing beliefs and ignore information that contradicts what we already think.

069
You can choose whatever you want, at any time; and once you choose it, you have to take responsibility for it.

No.
11 전치사의 목적어 역할을 하는 구와 절
070
Green marketing and environmentally conscious communications can play a role in building a positive image for the company.

071
Do what you can with what you’ve got where you are.

072
He gave up the idea of making a living as a lawyer in order to devote himself to acting and thus demonstrated his strong commitment to films and plays.

073
The way that we behave in a given situation is often influenced by how important one value is to us relative to others. 

 
No.
12 주어를 보충 설명하는 구와 절
074
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work.

075
Leadership is getting someone to do what they don’t want to do, to achieve what they want to achieve.

076
One thing most language learning experts can agree on is that language is best learned through regular exposure. 

077
After a car accident, one of the questions the police ask is whether the driver was using a cell phone while driving.

078
The present is what slips by us while we’re pondering the past and worrying about the future.

079
Until the patient recovers from the surgery, all you have to do is to wait and see.

080
The first thing a new mayor wants to do is make the city a tourist attraction that many people visit.

081
You cannot do everything at once, but what you can do is write down everything that needs to be done in a sensible order and work your way through it.

082
It took me several days to read this book because I kept crying.

083
When we choose to concentrate on one thing, other things go unnoticed and unattended.

No.
13 목적격보어 역할을 하는 준동사구
084
Painters cannot expect viewers to appreciate their work with exactly the same perceptions and emotions that went into their creation.

085
Diplomatic discussions were planned to persuade the rival nations to return to the negotiating table. 

086
Volcanic activity caused an island in the northern oceans to sink completely
beneath the waves, and the survivors had to find shelter elsewhere.

087
Experience is that marvelous thing that enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.

088
One easy way to start teaching kids responsibility is by having them clean up their own stuff, such as their toys or laundry.

089
I heard the bell ring and saw everyone pour into the halls.

090
Drinking water about half an hour before each meal can make you automatically eat fewer calories.

091
Some people just ooze happiness: They always seem to be smiling and having fun and let negative emotions and experiences roll off their backs. 

092
Treat people as if they were what they ought to be and you help them become what they are capable of being.

093
The mayor had the recent bank heist properly investigated by the police.

094
When the kitten saw her face reflected in the mirror, she immediately jumped on it.

095
The superstar kept her head hidden underneath her hat and a pair of sunglasses as she chatted on her mobile phone. 

 
No.
14 SV 뒤의 ‘명사’
096
Humans have a strong preference for immediate reward over delayed reward.

097
There’s a saying: Yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery, but today is a gift. That is why it is called the “present.”

098
The U.S. is a few generations away from slavery; racism is still ongoing.

099
It’s been so long since we talked that I can feel the distance between us.

100
I felt a fool when I dropped my phone from the building while taking a selfie.

101
The biggest tomato fight festival, La Tomatina, happens each year in Spain, involving some 40,000 people throwing 150,000 tomatoes at each other.

No.
15 SV 뒤의 ‘전명구’
102
If you don’t have the power to change yourself, then nothing will change around you.

103
A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.

104
When we get closer to people, their joy feels like our joy and their pain feels like our pain.

105
Repetitive training makes you more comfortable because confidence grows over time.

106
People behave in a different way in a big crowd than they do when they are alone or with a smaller group.

107
Time is of the essence. Live as though life is short — because it is.

No.
16 SVO 뒤의 ‘전명구’
108
A message’s persuasiveness concerns the credibility of the sender of the message.

109
Advertisements change people’s thinking by using language which appeals to emotions.

110
We’re not perfect. But that doesn’t mean we can lay some of our baggage on someone else.

111
Overconfidence can leave students with mistaken impressions that they are fully prepared for tests and no longer need to study.

112
Children’s drawings lack the expression of depth, and the size of an object in a drawing reveals its significance in a child’s mind.

113
We borrow environmental capital from future generations with no intention or prospect of repaying it.

114
While many of us perceive insects as harmful pests, in reality, humankind might cease to exist without their service of pollination. 

 
No.
17 SV 뒤의 ‘명사1+명사2’
115
Many businesses send future customers free gifts or samples in order to promote their products. 

116
If all sides of a rectangle have the same length, we call it a square.

117
The friendly owner of the restaurant made us a nice dinner despite the very late hour.

118
Confronting your fears, paradoxically, makes you a far happier and more productive person.

119
He had some trouble finding a book he wanted, so a librarian found him the book.

120
I always found him a sincere person who would stick by his word and always do his work.

121
Roles are like a fence. They allow us a certain amount of freedom, but that freedom doesn’t go very far. 

122
His calm determination won him the respect of his teammates who elected him captain.

123
The government considered the airwaves such an integral part of our democracy that politicians decided the public should own and control them.

	
No. 
	 	
18 SVO 뒤의 ‘to-v’ 
	 	
124 
	 	
A start-up company can lack the resources to compete in areas such as product development and advertising. 
	 	
 
	 	
125 
	 	
These days, law enforcement agencies like the FBI use various forms of digital technology to catch and prosecute criminals. 
	 	
 
	 	
126 
	 	
Gap years allow newly graduated high school students to expand their educational experience outside of a classroom setting, before starting college. 
	 	
 
	 	
127 
	 	
The International Space Station (ISS) provides valuable opportunities to test spacecraft systems and equipment for future missions. 
	 	
 
	 	
128 
	 	
Navigation systems are tracking the cell phones of other users to see how quickly those cell phones move through traffic. 
	 	
 
	 	
129 
	 	
I strongly encourage you to find a place to think and to discipline yourself to pause because time alone has the potential to change your life. 
	 	

	
No. 
	 	
19 SVO 뒤의‘명사+v-ing’ 
	 	
130 
	 	
The gravitational pull of Jupiter grabs asteroids passing the planet and pulls them to its surface. 
	 	
 
	 	
131 
	 	
When you notice yourself thinking of something negative, switch it around to what you are grateful for about the situation. 
	 	
 
	 	
132 
	 	
The atomic symbol, such as O for oxygen, means the letter representing each  
	
element on the periodic table. 
	 	
 
	 	
133 
	 	
Once you get people laughing, they’re listening and you can tell them almost anything. 
	 	
 	
No. 
	 	
20 주어의 위치 이동 
	 	
134 
	 	
Not only does a companion animal provide company, but it has to be fed, exercised, and cleaned; owners feel needed by their companion animals. 
	 	
 
	 	
135 
	 	
Little did the writer, the director, and the producer know that the drama would become a major success. 
	 	
 
	 	
136 
	 	
Understanding doesn’t create use: only when you can instantly recall what you understand and practice using your remembered understanding do you achieve mastery.  
	 	
 
	 	
137 
	 	
With great power comes great responsibility. 
	 	
 
	 	
138 
	 	
When the tree’s leaves die, so does its ability to produce food through photosynthesis. 
	 	
 
	 	
139 
	 	
You can neither hug yourself nor can you cry on your own shoulder. Life is all about sharing and communicating. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
No. 
	 	
 21 보어의 위치 이동 
	 	
140 
	 	
Faint grew the shape of the tall building in heavy fog. 
	 	
 
	 	
141 
	 	
The glow of one warm thought is to me worth more than money. 
	 	
 
	 	
142 
	 	
Certain personality characteristics, such as expecting the best from life, make some people, as their stressors occur, more resistant to distress. 
	 	
 
	 	
143 
	 	
Fundamental to most moral approaches is the idea that human life has a special dignity and value that is worth preserving even at the expense of self-interest. 
	 	
 
	 	
144 
	 	
So powerful is the sense of obligation to return a favor that it affects our daily lives very much. 
	 	
 
	 	
145 
	 	
A dull, long rainy season it has been, different from the year before. It gets humid easily, and it’s hard to see the sunshine.  
	 	
 
	 	
146 
	 	
We should attempt to become within our limitations the best we can be. 
	 	
 
	 	
147 
	 	
The presence of peers makes adolescents, more than adults, according to various studies, more likely to take risks. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
 22 목적어의 위치 이동 
	 	
148 
	 	
One thing my father left to me, and it was more valuable than a fortune — his diary. 
	 	
 
	 	
149 
	 	
What one has not experienced, one will never understand in print. 
	 	
 
	 	
150 
	 	
Those books which have made a lasting contribution to humans’ quest for truth, we call great books. 
	 	
 
	 	
151 
	 	
Due to the time limit, you have to know when and how to start solving each question in the test. When and how to stop you also have to know.   
	 	
 
	 	
152 
	 	
Hard work people can put up with, as long as there are good results. 
	 	
 
	 	
153 
	 	
College graduates are educated to read with understanding and appreciation books which otherwise they could not so read. 
	 	
 
	 	
154 
	 	
Laboratory tools make easier the job of scientists and their experiments. 
	 	
 
	 	
155 
	 	
We must create and maintain against transnational corporations and advertisers a noncommercial public media system.  
	 	
 
	 	
156 
	 	
Nearly every advance in molecular genetics makes possible some new tests for finding microscopic tumors. 
	 	
 
	 	
157 
	 	
Motivation is important for good studying. When you are motivated, you will find it simple to stay focused over a period of time. 
	 	
 
	 	
158 
	 	
Few people think it likely that they may be mistaken. 
	 	
 
	 	
159 
	 	
Although keeping your aims to yourself helps ease the fear of failure, it also makes it easy to avoid changing your life and drift back into old habits.  
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
 23 생략구문 
	 	
160 
	 	
Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful citizens can change the world; indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has changed the world. 
	 	
 
	 	
161 
	 	
Don’t judge each day by the harvest you reap, but judge each day by the seeds you plant. 
	 	
 
	 	
162 
	 	
Most jazz musicians can read music but often don’t bother, and their art is much involved with improvisation.  
	 	
 
	 	
163 
	 	
I believe that every right implies a responsibility; every opportunity, an obligation; every possession, a duty.  
	 	
 
	 	
164 
	 	
In general, people who are confident in cooking are more likely to enjoy various foods than those who are not. 
	 	
 
	 	
165 
	 	
Do your best to complete a task on time even when it is impossible to. 
	 	
 
	 	
166 
	 	
This is a safety announcement. Due to today’s wet weather, please take extra care while on the platform. Surfaces may be slippery.  
	 	
 
	 	
167 
	 	
Words are easily identified when part of a conversation but harder to recognize if presented alone. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
 24 삽입구문 
	 	
168 
	 	
A good name, like goodwill, is got by many actions and lost by one. 
	 	
 
	 	
169 
	 	
Writing English, not only reading it, helps you become a fluent speaker of the language. 
	 	
 
	 	
170 
	 	
Robots can do work which, while not physically dangerous, is so repetitious and dull that it debases any human mind that must engage in it for long periods of time. 
	 	
 
	 	
171 
	 	
If you go in for an argument, take care of your temper. Your logic, if any, will take care of itself. 
	 	
 
	 	
172 
	 	
Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
 25 동격구문 
	 	
173 
	 	
The term “Blue Chip” comes from the color of the poker chip with the highest value, blue. 
	 	
 
	 	
174 
	 	
Attitude is your psychological disposition, a personal predetermination not to let anything or anyone take control of your life or manipulate your mood. 
	 	
 
	 	
175 
	 	
There are two ways of spreading light, to be the candle or to be the mirror that reflects it. 
	 	
 
	 	
176 
	 	
The fear of saying something stupid which stupid people never have has censored far more good ideas than bad ones.  
	 	
 
	 	
177 
	 	
Genetic diversity, or the range of different inherited traits among individuals within species, provides the basis for evolution. 
	 	
 
	 	
178 
	 	
You shouldn’t miss the fact that first impressions do not have a lasting effect on relationships between people. 
	 	
 
	 	
179 
	 	
The question whether science is to be praised or blamed depends upon the use that is made of the technique. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
26 현재(진행)시제와 시간 
	 	
180 
	 	
Brainy Smurf in the animated movie The Smurfs wears glasses and often lectures the rest of the Smurfs without really knowing what he is talking about. 
	 	
 
	 	
181 
	 	
The reason oil floats on water is that it is less dense than water. 
	 	
 
	 	
182 
	 	
Reconstruction of the bridge finally begins next weekend and runs through April. 
	 	
 
	 	
183 
	 	
The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes. 
	 	
 
	 	
184 
	 	
She is attending a dinner party hosted by her friend this evening. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
No. 
	 	
27 현재완료시제와 시간 
	 	
185 
	 	
Research has recently found that lavender is among the best smells to help lower anxiety and induce sleep. 
	 	
 
	 	
186 
	 	
Time travel has been a common plot device in science fiction since the late 19th century. 
	 	
 
	 	
187 
	 	
I have been clearing out my attic all evening and just discovered my old album. 
	 	
 
	 	
188 
	 	
Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.  
	 	
 
	 	
189 
	 	
Some birds, such as ostriches and penguins, have lost their ability to fly, so their body structure is specialized for running or swimming today. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
28 과거[미래]완료시제와 시간 
	 	
190 
	 	
Supernovas may appear to be stars which have just exploded, but in actuality they had already exploded millions of years before. 
	 	
 
	 	
191 
	 	
When he returned to his country after a twenty-year absence, he realized that everything had changed completely. 
	 	
 
	 	
192 
	 	
If China’s coal use continues to increase as predicted, by 2040 China will have consumed more than a third of global reserves. 
	 	
 
	 	
193 
	 	
Starting a clothing store had always been one of my dreams, but I’d never told anyone about it. 
	 	
 
	 	
194 
	 	
They had put plaster on the wall for fire-resistance, and it prevented the building from burning down when there was a fire. 
	 	
 
	 	
195 
	 	
The marathoner was out of breath when he reached the finish line because he had been running for two hours straight. 
	 	
 
	 	
196 
	 	
The relationships people share with siblings are often the longest-lasting ones they will ever have experienced. 
	 	
 
	 	
197 
	 	
When the rescued mountaineers get back to the base camp, they’ll have been in the snowstorm for two days. 
	 	
 
	 	
198 
	 	
All the leaves will have fallen before you come here, so you won’t be able to see the leaves turning red. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
29 가정법 과거시제와 시간 
	 	
199 
	 	
People would worry less about what others think of them if they only realized how seldom they do. 
	 	
 
	 	
200 
	 	
There are 400 billion stars in our galaxy alone. If only one out of a million of those stars had intelligent life, there would be literally millions of civilizations out there.  
	 	
 
	 	
201 
	 	
If I should win the lottery, I wouldn’t tell anyone other than my family. 
	 	
 
	 	
202 
	 	
Were life easy, then it would be boring.  
	 	
 
	 	
203 
	 	
Should you experience any physical abnormality with this medicine, discontinue use and consult a physician.  
	 	
 
	 	
204 
	 	
Children wish they were grown-ups who do anything they want. Grown-ups wish  they were children with no responsibilities. 
	 	
 
	 	
205 
	 	
The philosopher wished more young people made time for thinking about the meaning of life. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
206 
	 	
Most of us spend our lives as if we had another one in the bank. 
	 	
 
	 	
207 
	 	
After hearing the announcement of her university acceptance, she felt as though she were in a wonderful dream.  
	 	
 
	 	
208 
	 	
Camera phones don’t understand privacy, and don’t forget either. It’s time we developed a new etiquette for the digital age. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
30 가정법 과거완료시제와 시간 
	 	
209 
	 	
They used to say I could have been a professional ballet dancer if I’d had the training. 
	 	
 
	 	
210 
	 	
They would have won the shooting game had he succeeded at the last shot.  
	 	
 
	 	
211 
	 	
Many people wish they had been born with leadership abilities because we all have dreams to make a difference in this world. 
	 	
 
	 	
212 
	 	
I listened to my kids talking about me as a parent, and I learned about things they wished I’d done and said. And I wished that I had done more of those things. 
	 	
 
	 	
213 
	 	
He is telling me about the accident as if he had seen it with his own eyes. 
	 	
 
	 	
214 
	 	
When we opened the door, everything was all over the place as if a blender had been turned on in the room. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
31 if절을 대신하는 여러 구문 
	 	
215 
	 	
Without the dark, we would never see the stars. 
	 	
 
	 	
216 
	 	
Their silence would have been awkward but for her talkative nature, as she talked enough for all the people.  
	 	
 
	 	
217 
	 	
I would not be where I am today if it had not been for his support, advice, and encouragement. 
	 	
 
	 	
218 
	 	
The atmosphere plays an important role; otherwise, millions of meteoroids would fall to the Earth. 
	 	
 
	 	
219 
	 	
Supposing you visited another planet, your mass would be the same as on Earth, but your weight would be different. 
	 	
 
	 	
220 
	 	
Allocated a larger budget, the film could have been much better than it was, but it does provide decent entertainment. 
	 	
 
	 	
221 
	 	
To hear him talk about our childhoods, you’d think he was my brother. 
	 	
 
	 	
222 
	 	
People say stupid things on the Internet but wouldn’t dare say those things out loud in public. 
	 	
 
	 	
223 
	 	
Intensive reading might have helped the concept to be more easily understood. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
32 부정사/동명사가 나타내는 때 
	 	
224 
	 	
The game of chess is believed to have originated in northern India around the 6th century. 
	 	
 
	 	
225 
	 	
A good book challenges us and changes us — we are never quite the same after having read it.  
	 	
 
	 	
226 
	 	
So many people seem to have forgotten what it feels like to have fun or what they should even do if they have time for fun. 
	 	
 
	 	
227 
	 	
The gain in self-confidence from having accomplished a tiresome labor is immense. 
	 	
 
	 
 
No.
33 주어가 동작을 하는가, 받는가
228
An intransitive verb is not followed by an object and can never be used in the passive.

229
The mushroom is a popular ingredient in many cuisines throughout the world and it is known as the “meat” of the vegetable world.

230
The increased demand of books was driven by a huge decrease in the price of books since the invention of the printing press around 1440.

231
The environmental impact of radioactive waste disposal has not been fully evaluated, and waste management is lacking.

232
Social media is being used to promote companies’ products and raise brand awareness.

233
As I was raised in favorable circumstances, I was taken good care of by my parents.

234
Believe it or not, so much attention was paid to making cars faster or lighter in the past that little or no attention was paid to the safety of the driver.

235
It has been said that the love of money is the root of all evil.

236
It is believed that small fish cluster together in order to confuse their predators and thereby protect themselves from harm.

237
We believe that each individual should be given the chance to develop and achieve to the maximum extent possible.

238
Venus is called Earth’s twin because Venus and Earth are very similar in size, mass, and composition.

239
Despite all the absurdity of war and genocide, we believe that human beings are rational and are made to seek the truth.

240
We must remember that when traveling is made too easy and comfortable, its spiritual meaning is lost.

241
One importer was recently caught selling 442 tons of Chinese rice as Korean-grown to wholesalers and retailers across the nation.

242
More than 260 dolphins were found washed ashore on the coast of Peru.

No.
34 의미상 주어가 동작을 하는가, 받는가
243
It is not always enough to be forgiven by others. Sometimes you have to learn to forgive yourself.

244
We should look for the opportunity in every difficulty instead of being paralyzed at the thought of the difficulty in every opportunity.

245
A study of 1,000 American teenagers aged between 12 and 17 years found that one in five teenagers claimed to have been bullied online.

246
Despite having been built in 802 AD, the temple shines brightly due to several renovations.

No.
35 가능성, 추측의 의미를 더하는 조동사 Ⅰ
247
She can’t be hanging around with her friends this late at night. She must be at home sleeping.

248
If you take this pill, it might cure your cold or at least lessen the severity.

249
The brave may not live forever but the cautious do not live at all.

250
You could hardly make a friend in a year, but you could lose one in an hour.

251
When you encounter an unfamiliar word, contextual clues should help you make a guess about the word’s meaning.

252
A wise person ought to try to avoid feelings of guilt by avoiding the acts that cause them.

253
Sharing concerns with like-minded people would help you to feel less alone.

254
Familiarity breeds contempt. This proverb suggests that a closer acquaintance with someone will result in a lessening of respect.

No.
36 가능성, 추측의 의미를 더하는 조동사 Ⅱ
255
The history of candy dates back to ancient peoples who must have snacked on sweet honey straight from beehives.

256
Our backgrounds and circumstances may have influenced who we are, but we are responsible for who we become.

257
Readers of the magazine cannot have failed to notice the eye-catching advertisement in the last issue.

258
The slogan “Think different” is grammatically inaccurate; “different” should have been “differently.” But Steve Jobs insisted on “different,” as well as the expression “think big.”

259
He is in an official position, and he should not have made such an imprudent
statement.

No.
37 should의 특별한 쓰임
260
Animal protection groups insist that the rights of animals should be acknowledged and respected.

261
It is necessary that you exercise frequently in order to be in good shape.

262
In order to speak and write the English language correctly, it is imperative that the fundamental principles of the grammar be mastered.

263
The doctor gave the suggestion that the child not eat too much sugar.

264
It is certainly surprising that such a highly reputable magazine should print such a childish article.

No.
38 구를 이루는 조동사들의 의미
265
Shampoo and other hair products used to cause trouble for my skin, so I use fragrance-free items.

266
My mentor would often tell me, “The difference between a dreamer and a doer is a decision.”

267
Organisms cannot help adapting to change in order to survive.

268
There were many volunteers at the disaster and they cannot be praised too highly.

269
What we think we know today may well be wrong tomorrow.

270
You may as well borrow a person’s money as his time.

271
I would rather walk with a friend in the dark, than alone in the light.

	
No. 
	 	
39 명사를 뒤에서 수식하는 형용사(구) 
	 	
272 
	 	
Similarity in core values and background can be the key to peaceful relationships. 
	 	
 
	 	
273 
	 	
We pick our friends not only because they are enjoyable company to spend time with, but because they understand us for who we are. 
	 	
 
	 	
274 
	 	
Visualization refers to using images or diagrams to express ideas. It is a tool useful for aiding analysis, exploration, comprehension, and understanding. 
	 	
 
	 	
275 
	 	
Doing something meaningful is what we are all ultimately searching for. 
	 	
 
	 	
276 
	 	
Parents sacrifice whatever is necessary to spend the maximum amount of time possible with their children. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
No. 
	 	
40 형용사 역할을 하는 v-ing/p.p. 
	 	
277 
	 	
Many aspiring hanbok designers have altered hanbok for everyday wear while still retaining some traditional elements but keeping a distinct modern feel. 
	 	
 
	 	
278 
	 	
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood. 
	 	
 
	 	
279 
	 	
Downtown city areas struggling with traffic jams and lack of parking lots are driving the growing popularity of car sharing.  
	 	
 
	 	
280 
	 	
A surprising result from the marketing report shows that nearly two out of every three college students never scan the QR codes found on ads. 
	 	
 
	 	
281 
	 	
Stereotypes are characteristics imposed upon groups of people because of their race, nationality, gender and culture.  
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
41 명사를 수식하는 관계대명사절 I 
	 	
282 
	 	
A man who does not know a foreign language is ignorant of his own. 
	 	
 
	 	
283 
	 	
Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night. 
	 	
 
	 	
284 
	 	
The heart of a mother is a deep abyss at the bottom of which you will always find forgiveness. 
	 	
 
	 	
285 
	 	
Hygge, a term that comes from Danish, is a mental state of well-being and  
	
togetherness. During Hygge, people light candles, drink wine and meet close friends whom they haven’t seen in a while.  
	 	
 
	 	
286 
	 	
A constellation is a group of stars that appear to make a particular pattern in the sky and have a name. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
42 명사를 수식하는 관계대명사절 II 
	 	
287 
	 	
Brainstorming is a useful way to let ideas which you didn’t know you had come to the surface.  
	 	
 
	 	
288 
	 	
I have noticed that fortune cookies say the most obvious things that people may just want to hear about themselves. 
	 	
 
	 	
289 
	 	
The adoption of farming was the most fundamental change in human history and led to all that we call civilization and recorded human history. 
	 	
 
	 	
290 
	 	
The goal in anger management is to increase the options which you have to express anger in a healthy way.  
	 	
 
	 	
291 
	 	
In science, the credit goes to the man who convinces the world, not the man to whom the idea first occurs. 
	 	
 
	 	
292 
	 	
Ultimately, the only power to which man should aspire is that which he exercises over himself. 
	 	
 
	 	
293 
	 	
When someone you care about is going through a hard time, you can help them by giving them a safe place to share their feelings. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
43 명사를 수식하는 관계부사절 
	 	
294 
	 	
There will be times when you are very busy and other times when it is quieter, so please be prepared to be flexible. 
	 	
 
	 	
295 
	 	
Home is the safe place where we can express our feelings and enjoy some of the most meaningful events in our lives.  
	 	
 
	 	
296 
	 	
One reason why you can do something is worth 100 reasons why you can’t.  
	 	
 
	 	
297 
	 	
There are many differences between how grammar is used in written English and how it is used in spoken English. 
	 	
 
	 	
298 
	 	
When an actor plays a scene exactly the way a director orders, it isn’t acting.  
	
It’s following instructions.  
	 	
 
	 	
299 
	 	
There is a reason that prey animals form foraging groups, and that is increased vigilance. The larger the group of prey animals, the less time the individual animal devotes to vigilance. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
44 관계대명사 what, whoever 등 
	 	
300 
	 	
Everyone sees what you appear to be, but few experience what you really are. 
	 	
 
	 	
301 
	 	
Whoever gossips to you will gossip about you. 
	 	
 
	 	
302 
	 	
What in one era is judged positively, in another can change meaning; what in one locale is considered tasty, in another can be rejected as disgusting. 
	 	
 
	 	
303 
	 	
Parenting is not just about you and your kid; it’s also about whomever you’re parenting your child with.  
	 	
 
	 	
304 
	 	
Sharks have been sculpted by evolution and ideally suited for whichever ecosystem they inhabit, from coral reefs to the open ocean. 
	 	
 
	 	
305 
	 	
By believing passionately in something that still does not exist, we create it. The nonexistent is whatever we have not sufficiently desired. 
	 	
 
	 
 
	
No. 
	 	
45 선행사를 보충 설명하는 관계사절 
	 	
306 
	 	
Unlike lawyers, who utilize information selectively to support their arguments, scientists must include all information even if some of it is unlikely to strengthen their arguments. 
	 	
 
	 	
307 
	 	
Globalization has resulted in a global brain drain, which refers to the situation in which countries lose their best educated workers to other countries. 
	 	
 
	 	
308 
	 	
The more you like yourself, the less you are like anyone else, which makes you unique. 
	 	
 
	 	
309 
	 	
The secret of genius is to carry the spirit of the child into old age, which means never losing your enthusiasm.  
	 	
 
	 	
310 
	 	
The motor of our ingenuity is the question “Does it have to be like this?,” from which arise political reforms, scientific developments, improved relationships, and better books. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
 
	 	
311 
	 	
The origins of contemporary Western thought can be traced back to the golden age of ancient Greece, when Greek thinkers laid the foundations for modern Western politics, philosophy, science, and law. 
	 	
 
	
 
	
 
	 	
312 
	 	
Many universities offer online courses, where students work closely with professors, using state-of-the-art e-learning technology. 
	 	
 

No.
46 관계사와 선행사의 생략
313
You must cite the author whom you are quoting whether you are directly quoting the author or paraphrasing the quote.

314
Newborn babies are immune to many diseases because they have antibodies they received from their mothers, although this immunity only lasts about a year.

315
Twenty years from now, you will be more disappointed by the things you did not do than by the ones you did.

316
The time you should repair the roof is when the sun is shining.

317
Without clear goals, it’s easy to get diverted, heading in multiple directions and years later ending up in the place you really never intended.

318
Comfort becomes addictive. The comfort zone is where dreams go to die.

No.
47 many of + 관계대명사
319
Deadly poisons, foul flavors, and toxins of plants are chemicals, a great many of which are designed to compel other creatures to leave them alone.

320
Social media has given voice and organizational ability to new cyber tribes, some of whom spend their time spreading blame and division across the World Wide Web.

321
Life is a series of experiences, each one of which makes us bigger, even though sometimes it is hard to realize this.

322
Indeed, all the coal, natural gas, and oil we use today is just solar energy from millions of years ago, a very tiny part of which was preserved deep underground.

No.
48 명사 + 형용사구 + 관계사절
323
The heel is the part of the body that receives the most shock upon impact, especially when walking and running.

324
We can cultivate a relationship of understanding between two individuals by allowing the other person to express themselves freely.

325
The taste of food is detected by sensory cells called taste buds located on top of the tongue. There are five basic tastes: sweet, bitter, sour, salty and savory.

326
New Zealand became the first country in the world to recognize the national rights of women to vote.

327
Fast fashion refers to trendy clothes of low prices designed, created, and sold to consumers as quickly as possible.

328
Methods for carrying out surveys depend on the population and decisions made by the authorities on size of sample.

329
Venus spins in a clockwise direction unlike all other planets including Earth that rotate in a counterclockwise direction.

330
Intellectual humility is admitting there are limits to the knowledge you have of certain issues. People who display intellectual humility are more likely to be receptive to learning from others.

No.
49 명사 + 관계사절 + 관계사절
331
Second-hand smoke is the smoke inhaled by people who are not themselves smoking but who are near others who are smoking.

332
Most modern people regard technology as an instrument that makes things or people’s lives easier and that can bring about contributions to our society.

333
We stand in proper awe of a man whose thoughts move on heights far beyond our range, whose achievements can be measured only by the few who are able to follow his reasoning and challenge his conclusions.

334
Every single person we know who is successful at what they do is successful
because they love doing it.

335
Start something you can do with pleasure that requires active body movements for your sound body and mind.

No.
50 주어와 멀리 떨어진 주어 수식 형용사구 / 관계사절
336
If technology is created that uses less energy, that should have the same basic effect as increasing the total amount of energy available.

337
The teacher highlighted the importance of working as a team, especially when time was running out to complete an activity.

338
When adapting novels for movies or dramas, some differences are noticeable
between the “original” narrative and the restructured version on screen.

339
Major discussion took place on whether online education can be as effective as physical attendance of school.

340
The thing always happens that you really believe in; and the belief in a thing makes it happen.

341
The time will come when you will doubt everything you stand for, but you must push forward and never stop.

No.
51 관계대명사 뒤의 I think류
342
We vote for the person who we think represents our interests best.

343
My father always did what he supposed was morally right and always voted in the way that he believed was right for society as a whole.

344
A plot twist is a shocking or unexpected revelation in a work of fiction, forcing the reader to reconsider what they thought they knew about the story.

345
Knowing they are being observed may cause people to behave differently. Subjects of research may give answers that they feel are more socially desirable than their true feelings.

No.
52 부사적 to-v의 의미
346
To think creatively, we must be able to look afresh at what we normally take for granted.

347
Students were relieved to find out that it was the last subject of the lecture.

348
He must be a man of moods to change his appointments all the time.

349
Sometimes in life we have to take chances in order to achieve a goal. It certainly takes courage to take risks.

350
So as to prevent any injuries at night, it is necessary that your children should stay in well-lit areas.

351
The speaker felt somewhat sorry to ask a barrage of questions to his opponent, but that was what these debates were for.

352
I was careless to allow him to see my plan and foolish to think he would not use it.

353
You were considerate to provide help. If it had not been for the help, I wouldn’t have been able to create a user-friendly website.

354
Most people in developed countries are expected to live to be about 80, and life expectancies are rising every year.

355
The film starts with a scene where the leading actor awakens to find himself in a dark wood.

356
He was the director of many plays, and both of his kids grew up to be movie stars and TV show celebrities.

357
Doing things quickly actually ends up slowing you down, such as when you rush out of your house only to realize you forgot your keys, phone, or wallet on the kitchen table.

358
Due to forest decline and severe drought, the villagers left their homeland, never to return.

359
E-publishing companies say e-books are more convenient to use than paper books.

360
No country has the potential to produce all commodities at the least cost. Trade is therefore beneficial for countries to ensure the supply of their needs.

No.
53 부사적 to-v 구문
361
After becoming exhausted from work, she recognized that life is too short to do something you don’t love.

362
Her success has been so remarkable as to deserve praise.

363
Be wise enough not to be reckless, but brave enough to take great risks.

364
It is apparent that the economy is growing much too slowly to put people back to work.

365
Red meat may be harmful, but I can’t go so far as to say it causes cancer.

366
It takes most fruit trees about 7 years before they are mature enough to produce good fruit.

367
Needless to say, theory and practice sometimes diverge.

368
Your interference is, to say the least of it, out of place.

No.
54 여러 의미의 접속사
369
Many people drive even when their destination is within walking distance.

370
I was using this portable photo printer when a paper jam occurred.

371
He was about to leave the room when there was a knocking on the door.

372
While one person hesitates because he feels inferior, another person is busy making mistakes and becoming superior.

373
While we may not be able to control all that happens to us, we can control what happens inside us.

374
As you consider colleges, start by thinking about yourself and then work toward choosing a school that fits you.

375
Cycling is better at increasing fitness than walking as it gets your heart rate up and utilizes all of the major muscle groups.

376
The police told us to leave things at the crime scene as they were.

377
High blood pressure can accelerate brain shrinkage as you age.

378
Strange as it seems, it’s okay to feel bad sometimes, because we’re supposed to experience a variety of moods.

379
We have natural climate change which has been going on since the world began.

380
People are lonely since they build walls instead of bridges.

No.
55 형태가 비슷한 접속사
381
During World War Ⅰ,Marie Curie persuaded wealthy people to donate their cars so that mobile X-ray machines could be used to locate bullets in wounded soldiers.

382
The digestive system is responsible for breaking down food we eat into smaller components so nutrients can be easily absorbed by the body and the waste discarded.

383
I worked in the “new products department,” and it was so secret that nobody else in the company knew what we did.

384
The instructor has been speaking so fluently and brilliantly that the one-hour lecture seems more like a quarter of an hour.

385
Satellites circling the Earth now have such powerful cameras that they can be used to spy on individual people on the Earth’s surface.

386
Fortunately for us, we had bought the house at a low period and sold it at a higher price, so that we got a profit out of the deal.

387
If a man is proud of his wealth, he should not be praised until it is known how he employs it.

388
In his last years, Beethoven created his Ninth Symphony, one of the best-known works in classical music, even though he couldn’t hear his own music.

389
Although human brains only account for 2 percent of typical body weight, they use up to 20 percent of metabolic energy.

No.
56 특이한 형태의 접속사
390
There is an expiry date on blaming your parents for steering you in the wrong direction; the moment you are old enough to take the wheel, responsibility lies with you.

391
By the time he was 11 or 12, the young virtuoso possessed one of the greatest
techniques of all time.

392
I find television very educating. Every time somebody turns on the set, I go into the other room and read a book.

393
Seeing that the amount of money involved is huge, it is not surprising that top-selling beverages have advertising budgets in excess of one billion dollars.

394
I thought the building felt very cold in that there were only walls and doors; no decorations.

395
Now that the exam is over, you are eager to find out how well you did, and the next stressful part of the exam begins — waiting.

396
All truths are easy to understand once they are discovered; the point is to discover them.

397
The old city, destroyed by the bombing during World War II, was rebuilt the way it used to be.

398
As an exception, private information can be accessed in case there is an official legal request.

No.
57 해석에 주의할 접속사
399
No sooner had the pianist finished his performance than the audience gave him a big hand.

400
He had hardly arrived at the theater when the movie started to play.

401
Treat everyone with politeness, even those who are rude to you, not because they are nice, but because you are.

402
Create a definite plan for carrying out your desire and begin at once, whether you are ready or not, to put this plan into action.

403
Science is facts; just as houses are made of stones, so is science made of facts; but a pile of stones is not a house and a collection of facts is not necessarily science.

404
Sharks continue to produce new teeth as long as they are alive, which is why shark teeth can often be found washed onto beaches.

405
It doesn’t matter if the guy is perfect or the girl is perfect, as long as they are perfect for each other.

406
Research points out it will not be long before many countries lack the younger workforce they need to compete internationally.

407
There are many different paths to happiness and success. Just because someone isn’t following yours, it doesn’t mean they’ve gotten lost.

408
Unless you are trying to lose weight to please yourself, it’s going to be tough to keep your motivation level high.

409
A lot of times, people don’t know what they want until you show it to them.

410
Don’t be angry at a friend who told your secret, for neither could you keep it to yourself.

411
Cheetahs are extremely fast, but they can only keep up their top speed for a few minutes before they are too tired to continue running.

412
Whatever the good or bad things in your life are, they are bound to change.

413
Let no man imagine that he has no influence. Whoever he may be, and wherever he may be placed, the man who thinks becomes a light and a power.

414
The whole house vibrates whenever a heavy lorry passes.

415
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.

No.
58 분사구문의 해석
416
Hundreds of fish were flashing and catching light from the sun, moving upstream.

417
Opening the door of the bakery, he caught the warm scent of fresh bread.

418
In the information age, we are bombarded with a constant stream of new data, leading to information overload.

419
Selecting plants to grow in your backyard, you should consider the atmosphere of your yard.

420
One of the most satisfactory aspects of using essential oils medicinally and cosmetically is that they can enter and leave our body with great efficiency, leaving no toxins behind.

421
Being a strain on the liver and kidneys, taking in too much protein can be dangerous to the body.

422
Chess is like other sports: wanting to be good, you have to practice and be in good mental and physical shape.

423
Travel while you can, sacrificing other things if necessary to do so. Looking back on their travel adventures as highlights of their lives, most people regret not having traveled more.

No.
59 분사구문이 의미하는 때
424
It’s difficult not to be confident when you realize your loved ones stand behind you,
cheering you on.

425
Opening the envelope, I found an invitation to the concert which I’d been wanting to go to.

426
The oppressed, having internalized the image of the oppressor and adopted his guidelines, are fearful of freedom.

427
Cupid was a playful child-god who flew around shooting love arrows into people’s hearts, making them fall in love.

428
Arriving at the station, they bought special railroad tickets for tourists.

429
The dog and its handler were dispatched to search for drugs, uncover explosives, and track fugitives, having received the proper training.

No.
60 분사구문의 주의할 형태
430
Not all biases are harmful, but, left unchallenged, some of them can make you prejudiced against certain groups, individuals, and ideas.

431
Previously known as Bombay, the city was renamed Mumbai, which was derived from the goddess Mumba, in 1995.

432
Once having made a promise, you should keep your word.

433
Unless accompanied by adults, children under 12 aren’t allowed to see this film.

434
A man of supreme power, Alexander the Great created one of the largest empires of the ancient world.

435
Unaware of their part in the experiment, the participants were given a placebo drug.

No.
61 분사구문의 의미상 주어
436
Bats are surprisingly long-lived creatures, some having a life expectancy of around twenty years.

437
The speaker went on and on, the audience getting more and more bored by the minute.

438
The ancient Egyptians excelled in many areas of medical science, one of these
being dentistry.

439
When keeping a diary, it is useful to record dates and places carefully.

440
Generally speaking, the truth of history is that it is a story that has been agreed upon.

441
With oil prices rising during the month, many people are looking to public transportation for their daily commute.

442
Our increasing reliance on computer systems makes computer science a growing field, with computer scientists typically sought after and receiving high salaries.

443
Security and privacy concerns have always been a problem on the Internet, with many people ignorant of the potential risks when inputting confidential data, passwords, and personal information.

With a hurricane on the way, it is advisable for all residents to leave the area
immediately.
444

445
When eating with others, remember not to speak with food in your mouth and chew with your mouth closed.

No.
62 비교 결과가 서로 같은 경우
446
A rumor is as hard to unspread as butter.

447
I think people take me as seriously as I want them to. They take me as seriously as I take myself.

448
Raising a child as adoptive parents is no less noble than being birth parents.

449
We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it.

No.
63 비교 결과가 서로 차이 나는 경우
450
An image has a much greater impact on your brain than words; the nerves from the eye to the brain are twenty-five times larger than the nerves from the ear to the brain.

451
TV shows were more popular a decade ago than they are now not because they were better, but because we had fewer alternatives to compete for our screen attention.

452
Bystanders sometimes see more than those who play the game.

453
Plenty of light is not less necessary than fresh air for good health.

454
Recording an interview is easier and more thorough, and can be less unnerving to an interviewee than seeing the interviewer scribbling in a notebook.

455
In life, what happens to you isn’t as important as what happens in you.

456
The important thing in science is not so much to obtain new facts as to discover new ways of thinking about them.

457
A willingness to pay higher prices isn’t due to a desire to acquire better quality so much as to advertise wealth.

458
A person who can speak many languages is not more valuable than a person who can listen in one.

No.
64 여러 가지 것 중 가장 정도가 심한 경우
459
The flower that blooms in adversity is the most beautiful of all.

460
The greatest education in the world is watching the masters at work.

461
Speak when you are angry, and you will make the best speech you’ll ever regret.

462
There is no revenge so complete as forgiveness.

463
There is nothing more dreadful than the habit of doubt. It is a poison that disintegrates
friendships and breaks up pleasant relations.

464
The supervisor works as diligently as any member of staff I know in this company. It’s no wonder he won the Employee of the Year Award.

465
Audiobooks are growing faster than any other format, including print and e-books, because of the convenience of multitasking.

No.
65 주요 비교 표현
466
The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large.

467
I think of life as a good book. The further you get into it, the more it begins to make sense.

468
The quicker you know what you want to do, in terms of career, the better. This gives stronger reasons to apply yourself when, for example, everyone else is out there partying.

469
Throughout human history, people have been trying to send information faster and faster and store information in smaller and smaller media.

470
When you’re typing with your thumbs, you need to save your effort by communicating with as few letters as possible, so text message symbols were created as shorthand for users.

471
The richest or most powerful man cannot buy even one more minute of time in a day.

No.
66 강조구문
472
Dreams feel real while we’re in them. It’s only when we wake up that we realize something was actually strange.

473
It was not until the beginning of the last century that motion pictures began to exert their influence on mass culture as we know it today.

474
Although people who belong to the same age group differ in many other ways, most of them do share a set of values and common cultural experiences that they carry throughout life.

475
Take decisive action to restore a sharp edge to your productivity. This is the very reason professionals are required to continuously learn what’s new in the profession in order to remain up-to-date.

476
When in doubt, we need to cross-check the facts of an article ourselves. The simple act of fact-checking prevents misinformation from shaping our thoughts.

477
The liar’s punishment is not in the least that he is not believed, but that he cannot believe anyone else.

No.
67 공통구문
478
In many cases stress is caused, not by the event itself, but rather by our response to the event.

479
Keeping a diary means putting down what we have done, what we thought of, or what has happened. Keeping a diary encourages self-reflection.

480
Whether we like it or not, we are controlled by, rather than in control of, natural forces.

481
I have always taught my children that politeness, learning, and order are good things, and that something good is to be desired and developed for its own sake.

482
A good marriage is one which allows for change and growth in both individuals and in the way they express their love.

No.
68 병렬구조
483
From the 5th to the 15th century, barbers performed many services, including cutting hair, pulling teeth, and treating medical conditions.

484
You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.

485
Many kinds of animal behavior are the result of habit rather than of instinct, and animal habits, like human customs, can be changed quite rapidly.

486
Both optimists and pessimists contribute to our society. The optimist invents the airplane and the pessimist the parachute.

487
The past can hurt. But the way I see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it.

488
Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.

489
Progress is made, not only by the efforts of the rich and powerful, but also by the collective struggles of everyday individuals.

No.
69 부정구문
490
Consider what Mahatma Gandhi said: “Not all our gold and jewelry could satisfy our hunger and quench our thirst.”

491
Apologizing does not always mean that you’re wrong and the other person is right. It sometimes means that you value your relationship more than your ego.

492
An artwork is not necessarily followed by a second work that is better.

493
If you cannot decide which of the two things to do, you are likely to get yourself into trouble by doing neither.

494
In fact, consensus rarely comes without some forms of subtle coercion and the absence of fear in expressing a disagreement is a source of genuine freedom.

495
Trade will not occur unless both parties want what the other party has to offer.

No.
70 대명사·대용어
496
Great opportunities come to all, but many do not know they have met them. The only preparation to take advantage of them is simple fidelity to what each day brings.

497
Not only is the wise use of leisure a mark of a cultured man, but the value he places on privacy in the use of it is another.

498
Courage is the greatest of all the virtues. Because if you don’t have courage, you may not have an opportunity to use any of the others.

499
Be as careful of the books you read, as of the company you keep; for your habits and character will be as much influenced by the former as by the latter.

500
Being a parent is such a huge responsibility, but the other side of the coin is that it is one of the most exciting and enjoyable things you can do.

 

	 
 
